---
title: "System Design & AI agents"
description: "So far... about system design and AI agents"
startedAt: 2026-02-22
status: "in-progress"
tags: []
---


## System Design
As i find myself using AI more and more for writing my coding, i thought it would be good to at least compensate that with learning more about system design. How do you go from a simple client/server application to a distributed systems, where you have many components in play. System design always comes up when you think about interviewing, but i think this is a very important skill to have now. If writing code becomes a trivial task, or at least a non time consuming task (because there is a craft/skill in writing good code), designing a good system will be primal.

### How i have been ‘vibe coding’ so far?
After defining a clear scope of what it is that I am trying to do, I always go back and forth with the AI by asking things I am not sure about like ‘what can be a good DB for this kind of system’, and ‘WHY not X?’, ‘What happens if at some point i need to change to Y?’, ‘Can X be easily deployed on…’. These are things that I am not familiar with, and by asking and reading the answers, and references provided with the answers, i get to learn in the process.

So where I am getting at, is that knowing how systems work, and what components are needed to build a good system will help me in the future (the future, where agentic coding is mainstream), to at least have good foundations/architecture in place. There are a lot of resources about System Design online, a lot of youtube videos on System Design interviews, but since I like long form / workshop-style courses, I am taking the [Backend System Design course](https://frontendmasters.com/courses/backend-system-design/) on Frontend Masters taught by [Jem Young](https://www.linkedin.com/in/jemyoung/). So far, in the chapters i went through, I have learned what kind of questions you should ask before designing a system, identifying requirements, functional and non functional. Although, these are topics I learned about at school, but it wasn’t in a context of everyday work. I am looking forward, to the next chapters about High level design and Scaling.


## Building AI agents
I’ve been hearing a lot about AI agents for the past 2 years. And to be honest, only a few weeks ago i got curious enough to actually take a course on how to build one. And to my surprise, it wasn’t what i expected? I expected some very complex architecture, deep understanding on machine learning, and maths (which terrifies me 😀 as a ‘software engineer’) only to find out its just literally calling LLM APIs. Or at least, at the high level. However, taking [AI Agents Fundaments v2](https://frontendmasters.com/courses/ai-agents-v2/) by [Scott Moss](https://www.linkedin.com/in/williams-s-m/) on Frontend Masters, taught me a few terminologies about AI that i didn’t understand: like tools, evals, etc… At least now I know what an AI agent is, and I hope by the end of this course I should try and build a few personal agents that do something or nothing. I will share a more in depth article once i finish this course, and hopefully have a working demo to share what I have learned. stay tuned ;)